# Manabe-Climate-Model
This model was developed at GFDL/NOAA in Princeton, NJ by a group of scientists in the 1980's and 1990's. The model was used in many important climate papers through the year 2000 and in the early CMIP (Coupled Model Intercomparison Project) phases.
There is a tarball (gzip) file in this repository. The atmospheric model documentation is in a second zip file. The tarball contains the code, simple compile and run script along with the input data. Model documentation for the atmospheric component is also provided. Documentation for the ocean (MOM1) is available elsewhere. 
The model code was developed for Cray supercomputers available in the 1980's and 1990's. Recently the code was ported to run on PC-like machines using the Intel compilers. Some testing was performed using other available compilers (e.g. GNU).
The model as provided is a 2 degree atmosphere and ocean model. The atmosphere resolution is normally described as an R30. The tranform grid for the atmsophere is 96 (east-west) by 80 (north-south). The ocean grid is 192 by 80 and arranged so that 2 TS (tracer) oceanic grid boxes overlay 1 atmospheric grid box.
The physical parameterizations are very simple and were mainly developed by Manabe and co-workers in the 1970's and 1980's for the atmosphere and by Bryan and co-workers for the ocean. There is no diurnal variation of the radiation.
Literally hundreds of papers used results from this model run at either 4 degree or 2 degree resolution. The best reference is Manabe et al. 1991 - Manabe, Syukuro, Ronald J Stouffer, Michael J Spelman, and Kirk Bryan, 1991: Transient responses of a coupled ocean-atmosphere model to gradual changes of atmospheric CO2. Part I: Annual mean response. Journal of Climate, 4(8), 785-818. The references found in this paper describe the model. The best reference for the 2 degree model is Delworth et al. 2002 - Delworth, Thomas L., Ronald J Stouffer, Keith W Dixon, Michael J Spelman, Thomas R Knutson, Anthony J Broccoli, P J Kushner, and Richard T Wetherald, 2002: Review of simulations of climate variability and change with the GFDL R30 coupled climate model. Climate Dynamics, 19(7), 555-574.
A few important points:
  1. The model is provided as is. No support is available. The people who developed and used this model have all either retired or moved on and forgotten the details. Papers are the best places to find answers to questions.
  2. Only a simple runscript is provided. Since setting up production scripts is very machine dependent, it is the user's responsibility to perform this task.
  3. The model does its history dumps in sequential FORTYRAN I/O...not netcdf files. Also the atmsopheric component writes some of its data as spectral variables. The scripts/code to read and convert these history files not longer works. Unfortunately. Again it is the user's responsibility to develop these scripts/codes.
That said, as of June 2017, both the University of Arizona and Rutgers University are attempting to develop the scripts to run the model in production and the script/codes to process the history data. As of now, those scripts/codes are not complete. At some point in the future, a User may be able to contact folks at these universities for help.
